# PCSK9-analysis
Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was used to generate the amino acid backbone of PCSK9 (pro-domain, catalytic, CHR domain and LDLR-EGF-). The pro-domain (Chain P), Catalytic and CHR domain (Chain A) and LDLR-EGF- (Chain E) and backbone atoms of each frame were extracted and aligned using scripts (trj_selection_dl.py and trj_align.py) from Schrodinger package 2019v.4. Individual simulations from all runs were merged using the trj_merge.py script into a final trajectory and CMS file, which was further used to generate the principal components. Principal components of protein backbone atoms were calculated using the trj_essential_dynamics.py script. 

Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) interacts and induces degradation of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR). Gain-of-function (GOF) PCSK9 variants increase LDLR degradation and cause Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH). Effects of PCSK9 missense variants on protein structure and interaction with LDLR were explored using in silico and in vitro studies. Variants in FH-related genes were identified by exon-target gene sequencing in 113 Brazilian FH patients and PCSK9 missense variants were identified using ANNOVAR tools. Molecular modeling analyses were used to explore the impact of PCSK9 variants on PCSK9-LDLR complex. Eight PCSK9 missense variants, located in the pro- (p.E32K and p.E57K), catalytic (p.R237W, p.P279T and p.A443T), and C-terminal histidine-cysteine rich (CHR; p.R469W, p.Q619P and p.R680Q) domains, were identified. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations revealed that the catalytical and CHR domain variants are located far (>22.5 Å distance) from the sites of PCSK9 interaction with LDLR-epidermal growth factor-alpha (EGF-α) domain. p.A443T (catalytic) and p.R469W and p.Q619P (CHR) variants affect internal interactions mainly with residues in the pro-domain. The PCSK9 GOF variants p.E32K and p.R469W were cloned by site-directed mutagenesis and the constructs were transfected into HEK293FT cells. These variants showed a small reduction (<11%) of LDLR expression on cell surface. In conclusion, PCSK9 p.A443T, p.R469W and p.Q619P affect internal interactions that maybe crucial for PCSK9 structural conformation and activity and p.E32K and p.R469W GOF variants have a minor effect on LDLR cellular levels.
